CASMPET-5646: Nexus Export and Restore Docs and Scripts (#2022)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/package_repository_management/Nexus_Export_and_Restore.md

# Nexus Export and Restore

The current process for ensuring the safety of the nexus-data PVC is a one time, space intensive, manual process and is only recommended to be done while Nexus is in a known good state.

> A export is recommended to be done before an upgrade to enable the ability of rollback. Taking an export can also be used to improve Nexus resiliency by allowing easy fixes for data corruption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An export is recommended to be done before an upgrade to enable the ability of rollback. Taking an export can also be used to improve Nexus resiliency by allowing easy fixes for data corruption.
```

Author: Fixed all suggestions in new commit.

> This process is still a run at your own risk procedure, and is not recommended for all cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**CAUTION:** This process may be risky and is not recommended for all use cases.
```

## Export

> Note about taking an export: There is only one export that should be taken, each time the script is run it will overwrite the old export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Only one export should be taken.  Each time the script is run, it will overwrite the old export.
```

> Prior to making an export check the size of the exported tar file (on the cluster, e.g. 3 times size of just the export), and the amount of storage the cluster has left, run the following command on a master node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prior to making an export, check the size of the exported tar file on the cluster (for example, three times the size of just the export) and the amount of storage the cluster has left.

Run the following command on a master node (`ncn-m#`):
```

```bash
kubectl exec -n nexus deploy/nexus -c nexus -- df -P /nexus-data | grep '/nexus-data' | awk '{print "Amount of space the Nexus export will take up on cluster: "(($3 * 3)/1048576)" GiB";}' && ceph df | grep 'zone1.rgw.buckets.data' | awk '{ print "Currently used: " $7 $8 ", Max Available " $10 $11;}'
```

> This command prints out the amount of space the Nexus export will take on the cluster. The command also prints the amount of space currently used in the Ceph pool that the export will be stored.

Reviewer: The above command will return the following information:

* The amount of space the Nexus export will take on the cluster.
* The amount of space currently used in the Ceph pool that the export will be stored.
* The max amount of space available in that Ceph pool.
   If the size of the Nexus export plus the size of the currently used space is larger than the max available size, submit a help request to figure out a solution.

The command also gives the max amount of space available in that Ceph pool. If the size of the Nexus export plus the size of the currently used space is larger than the max available
size please submit a help request to figure out a solution.

Taking the export can take multiple hours and Nexus will be unavailable for the entire time. For a fresh install of Nexus the export takes around

> 1 hour for every 60 GiB stored in the nexus-data PVC. So for example if the nexus-data PVC is 120 GiB (meaning the first step showed the export will take 360 GiB on cluster)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1 hour for every 60 GiB stored in the nexus-data PVC. For example, if the nexus-data PVC is 120 GiB (meaning the first step showed the export will take 360 GiB on cluster)
```

Nexus would be unavailable for around 2 hours while the export was taking place.

> To get an export run the export script on a master node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get an export, run the export script on a master node (`ncn-m#`):
```

```bash
/usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/nexus-export.sh
```

## Restore

> The restore will delete any changes to made to Nexus after the backup was taken. The restore takes around half the time that the export took

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The restore will delete any changes made to Nexus after the backup was taken. The restore takes around half the time that the export took
```

> (e.g. if the export took 2 hours the restore would take around 1 hour) and during the time to restore Nexus is unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(for example, if the export took two hours the restore would take around one hour) and during the time to restore Nexus is unavailable.
```

> To restore Nexus to the state of the backup run the restore script on any master node:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To restore Nexus to the state of the backup, run the restore script on any master node (`ncn-m#`):
```

```bash
/usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/nexus-restore.sh
```

## Cleanup

To clean up all the jobs and data that the export or restore creates there are a few different commands that can be used.

> To clean up the job that the export created run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clean up the job that the export created:
```

```bash
kubectl delete job -n nexus nexus-backup
```

> To clean up the job that the restore created run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clean up the job that the restore created:
```

```bash
kubectl delete job -n nexus nexus-restore
```

> If a new export is being created its recommended to first delete the old export to ensure everything exported correctly. If the old export is not deleted the new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a new export is being created, it is recommended to first delete the old export to ensure everything exported correctly. If the old export is not deleted the new
```

job will overwrite the old export. This is expected behavior as only one export should be used at a time.

> To delete an export run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To delete an export:
```
